---
layout:  post
title:  "Day 3: the Spoon Under the Waterfall"
date:  2018-04-04 10:30:00 -0400
categories:  rc
---

Back in college, I went on a summer research trip to Micronesia to study a language there. A professor on the program commented that being a field linguist is like "holding a spoon under a waterfall."

This analogy is not an analogy, it *is literally* RC. I feel like I'm furiously trying to scoop spoonfuls of waterfall. Being here is not unlike being immersed in a foreign country or programming-themed [study abroad](http://aliza.aufri.ch/tig/35-recurse-center-is-like-studying-abroad). Rather than stress about how much of the waterfall is tumbling past me, however, I will cherish the bits of it that I manage to keep. In addition, I will try -- as much as I can -- to write about them here.

# What [officially] I did today

For the greater part of today, I paired with [Casey](https://rodarmor.com/) on a [Racket interpreter](https://github.com/lydiolectal/interpreter-project/tree/74a7a2ffd2637c3f2fc936469aea777abcce7411) I wrote in (veeery) clunky (and only partially-understood) C. Casey called it "project archaeology", which feels pretty apt for describing the utter obscurity of things that past Lydia wrote. I actually met Casey on Day 1 in a rather serendipitous accident while I was looking for someone else, thought Casey was him, and then started talking to him.

Among other things, we:
- Figured out how to run my interpreter and feed it input.
- Used some cool bash commands to move test files to a tests/ directory and rename files with the same name.
- Wrote a program in Python that takes the input files, feeds them as the stdin through the interpreter program, and then compares the stdout with the expected output (as defined by output files in tests/).

During lunch, I had an enjoyable, thought-provoking conversation with [Sarah](https://github.com/sarahwelzgeselowitz). We discussed everything from possessive alienability and how to do good in the world (incl. cynicism around different paths, questioning if this is really the best way to make a positive impact in the world) to how Ursula Le Guin's writing was formative for Sarah's conception of gender roles / what "femininity" is. Oh, and she recommended [Elm](http://elm-lang.org/) to me and I am really intrigued!

And shout-out to [Rory](http://blog.sory.biz/), without whose L-shaped MacBook charger I would not be writing this blog post -- and without whose charger I would not have been able to do any of the coding I did today. (Context: my charger is on its last legs and almost everyone here uses T-shaped chargers. Sad.)

# Reminders for myself

1. Everyone is a beginner at what they are learning. Knowing fewer things about programming does not mean you shouldn't be here or that you have nothing to offer. You do belong here.
2. You won't ever get everything you think you "should get done", done. That's okay. Do what you can and accept that our expectations of how fast we can be often exceed how fast we can actually be. This doesn't mean you won't get it done; it just means it will take more time.
3. Don't worry about picking the *best possible* project. Just code, code, code. Alicia (one of the facilitators) told me today that she thinks coding is probably the best use of time here at RC.
4. Be kind to yourself. While it's good to push yourself to be a better programmer, it is not at all advisable to sacrifice your mental/physical/spiritual health to do so. Be responsible and take breaks! Go home! (This is an imperative for present me. it's 7:07! I need to go home!)
